like I did crazy experience so I spent
like a hundred and something or 200 and
something thousand on clothes and
wanted to see what that did in business
meetings
you've been doing this for a long time
so Neil Patel which is kind of like a
personal blog where you're talking about
like you know hacks and experiments and
strategies that you've you know figured
out
how many could you say how many millions
that brought in in client bookings what
for the agency like what uh how big did
just the referrals from Neil Patel get
you before other stuff kicked in like
word of mouth and being recognized in
the industry and other things like that
I think the Neil Patel brand got us to
around like 30 40 million in revenue and
then Word of Mouth started kicking in
and then other things started kicking in
and employees started bringing in their
own deals because they've worked in the
space for so long and then we saw more
and more growth got awards that brought
us deals
um being a minority owned business that
helps believe it or not there's if
you're Indian and you live in the United
States you're considered a minority and
uh I was about to say are we a minority
yeah
you're the majority of CEOs out there so
I mean
it's funny because we go through rfps
and some of them asked if you're um what
is it like MBE certification or
something like that I forgot what it's
called or minority business this
Enterprise
and I was like well I'm not a minority
there's like one plus billion of me in
this world right and they're like oh
you're a minority I'm like what are you
talking about there's like a billion
plus Indians in this world how are we a
minority and they're like oh in America
you're a minority and in some of these
rfps they're looking it says in there
we're looking for
um LGBT
Q I don't know what the uh yeah all four
of the letters are
um
yeah the q's there
uh and then a woman-owned businesses
veteran-owned businesses and the other
one was minority
and I was just like wait there's
actually a quota that these big Fortune
500 companies have to hit and they're
like yeah and I was like well I'm a
minority they're like well you need the
certification and I was like I gotta
have a certification to tell you that
I'm a minority and at first I didn't
realize I was a minority they were
telling me Oh you're a minority we
reached out to you we're hoping that you
would be a good fit and I'm like I'm a
minority and they're like yeah you're a
minority in the United States you'd help
us meet our quota do you have the
certification I'm like what are you
talking about and then we went through
the process and got the certification
you gotta get your papers bro you gotta
get your papers right
I would have been offended and then as
soon as I realized wait this is to my
advantage oh hold on um I also got solar
panels on my house does that help you
know like I'm a dog I wearing glasses
yeah exactly I have a vision impairment
uh called farsightedness you know so
what else Works in my favor here you
know like what's the certificate just
turn the webcam on and it looked at you
and it was like yep that was it that's
not enough and what's funny is our CEO
or VP operations one of the titles I
forgot what Tracy's title is she asked
me for this like six months before we
did it she's like hey I need your birth
certificate I'm like yeah why do you
need my birth certificate she's like oh
we need it for the certification like
whatever
and the moment someone ended up telling
me how uh Magic Johnson generates a lot
of his Revenue because he's a minority
and gets a lot of contracts partners
with other businesses white labels it
and uses his name becomes a
quote-unquote owner of that business and
then Outsource oh wait tell me about
that give me an example what's what's an
example of the Magic Johnson formula
sure so I don't know if this is true
this is just what someone in the
minority space ended up telling so
that's the caveat I don't know if this
is true or real and they're saying let's
say if someone has a food company and
they have the contracts with all the
hospitals that are run by the government
like the VA
they're looking for minorities to prod
it but there's already a lot of big
corporations that provide the food so
Magic Johnson may go create a business
that's in that space partner with the
big supplier who already provides a few
to these hospitals he'll go get the
contracts and then work with them to
actually put those yeah you never heard
you you never heard of this my
my in-laws my
must own a moving company and they're
minorities they're uh black they're
Haitian immigrants and they win deals
partially because of that reason because
like Morgan Stanley or something like
that if they want to move they want to
they have some type of policy in their
company it says we we want to get rfps
for or we want to get bids from these
types of companies
I had no idea how I obviously I knew
this exists I just didn't realize how
significant was I definitely didn't know
the Magic Johnson formula which is
frankly genius on his part if that's if
that's actually what he does right we
don't know it's true but think of it
this way right it's a quota so if I go
and I get an RFP let's say from Boeing
which funny enough we lost the RFP
because we're over bikes for what they
wanted
um
is very similar to the competition I
have Awards showing that we were the
agency of the year so like all right
these guys are good at what they do we
have the case studies and if we're
similar prices like oh this is minority
helps us hit our quota let's give the
business here right
yeah yeah of course you have some Merit
uh to go with it for the first 30
million dollars of business you got that
and you must have gotten that by year
two or so if you're growing this fast
um what was the main year three sorry
three
what was the main service like when I
think of like because I went to your
website and I actually submitted a lead
to figure it out there was the maximum
you ask what your website is and what
your budget is and it's like zero to ten
thousand ten thousand or twenty thousand
and then just fifty thousand plus so
were you serving like mostly small
businesses and what like what were you
were you doing as simple stuff as like
making their Yelp page good like what
were you doing
yeah so it's not that small we do have
some smbs like that but we actually
first started off in uh mid-market our
clients would pay us like a minimum of
10 grand a month
and what would you do for ten thousand a
month
so nothing was cookie cutter it was all
custom so like maybe they needed SEO
maybe they needed help on paid
management maybe they needed some cro or
email marketing or a little bit of
everything right but the plans would
start at 120 a year right 10 a month and
scale up from there to 20 a month 30 a
month whatever it may be
what was most in Vogue as the service
when you started like the trend
everybody wanted and then what's the in
Vogue thing today when we first started
it was mainly SEO because what does that
mean though what does that mean you use
ha reps or something and your employees
like look which terms they should rank
for and then you write an article for
them
so it was optimizing their on-page code
helping build links creating content
promoting the content and making sure
that traffic converted into leads or
sales assuming if they weren't Services
um and it was a positive Roi that sounds
like a ton of work for ten thousand
dollars a month
it would start at 10. it depended on the
keywords how hard they were to ring for
and I would go up from there
and what about now Sam I love when you
describe people's businesses because
you're just like uh so what does that
mean you just Google their name and then
it doesn't show up and then you go write
an article with their name and it's like
what's the hustle dude you just read the
New York Times and then you just cut out
half the words and then you hit send in
an email like is that what is that what
the hustle is yeah
like like you know uh there's there's
always more nuance and complication in
reality but like if you you can explain
things in a fairly simple way where it's
like what's HubSpot oh they just make
software so when you people sign up for
your website you can email them and call
them like you know what I mean like you
could I'm just trying to dumb it down to
that hub spot but when you look at the
business when they first started massive
churn how to add tons of features how to
figure out onboarding how to figure out
a training there's a lot of stuff that
went to make HubSpot billion dollar
company right but a lot of people look
at it as email but they do more than
email they do more than a CRM they've
added actually if anyone in the space
has a ton of traction they have a
history of adding a lot of those
features for free which is a smart model
and then God block market share get them
into the ecosystem and hopefully they
stick around
and so what's what's the popular you
should do the ad reads uh for us yeah oh
that was amazing
by the way Sam I think you should make
Suburban dictionary which is just you
explaining businesses without like any
uh any of the complicated stuff like
yeah what is it well if you get
customers
the the three syllable dictionary like I
I explain complicated things but no word
is above three syllables
uh what by the way
I was just gonna say Ben brought up one
point on that minority thing Ben you
want to say that that sounds pretty
interesting you slacked us something but
Neil kind of mentioned this too but like
this is really really uh popular in
government work because the government
is like very hardcore about hitting
their quotas
um for racial minorities and so around
here like I actually know a couple guys
and basically what they do is uh
the people I know are all
African-American they get the contract
they put their name on the contract they
then Outsource the entire thing to like
uh Deloitte or KPMG or whatever and they
take like you know 15 of the revenue or
whatever they create a consulting firm
that's like the minority minority Inc
and then minority Inc goes against the
contracts and Farms it out to to like
Deloitte or whoever that's great Neil
was was quick Sprout uh Ben there you go
uh was quick Sprout I mean so that was
your main business quick Sprout and
crazy eight were your main business for
a while
before it was just a Blog and then my
co-founder Heathen ended up taking it
over and now it's his blog
so but what was your main source of of
Revenue and income because I've like I
said I've listened to you forever like
you've been crushing it it seems like
financially for like 10 plus years I
don't know if I'm crushing it but uh the
main source to income was crazy for most
of my life and then it ended up becoming
the Ad Agency
and Sam you said something at the very
beginning that if I was listening to
this I'd be like wait hold on I want to
hear that story you said something like
Just for kicks he would like spin up a
business that like did 100K a month in
Revenue what's an example of that tell
that story because that sounds awesome
yeah so everyone thinks like it's really
hard to make money online and then you
got the shysters you'll like buy this
for a thousand dollars and you'll become
rich which never really happens maybe
every once in a while but for most
people it doesn't so I was the thing I
created business on anything people are
like go create a nutrition business my
audience picked I give them like a lot
of different options they picked a
nutrition business and I was like all
right let's create a blog get a ranking
get some traffic and then funnel people
in through quizzes through uh emails and
let's follow them into supplements rank
higher on Amazon get traction and see
what happens and it did well
and that took you like uh months years
it wasn't months it was much more than
that I think it was a year right a
little bit less than a year I think it
was like nine or ten months
so it wasn't like one or two months
sadly but a little bit less than a year
so it's pretty good it was an awesome it
was an awesome blog post series Sean you
got to Google it Google like quick
Sprout or Neil Patel then like hundred
thousand dollars a month and it was like
a monthly update it was pretty amazing I
I don't think they may have deleted it
now I don't know if it's still a line
but and then so I took the money I made
from crazy Egg and I would park it into
other things so it's like stock market
for a long time the stock markets had a
really crazy run right then you also
have things like Investments a lot of
venture funds uh Angel Investments and
then sometimes you just get lucky
sometimes you don't know that's a
numbers game
we had talked about doing a Content
series like this to grow the podcast I
was like you know I think one of the
best ways to grow the podcast could be
if we do a challenge like what you had
described and one of the ideas is like
what if Sam created his own uh Sam
sticky icky his own a condiment brand
and we basically show how we build a d2c
brand like from from idea to like
branding to marketing to and we just do
it all transparently to like like get
people hooked on okay let me see how you
guys actually build this thing now it's
a lot of Works which is why I think
ultimately we didn't do it but how well
did that work for you was that like just
kind of like a good content thing or was
it like no that was like drove a lot of
growth for the brand and the blog I'm
curious how well that worked for you it
didn't drive as much growth for the
brand
um but it did help out every little bit
like I did crazy experience so I spent
like 100 and something or 200 and
something thousand on clothes and wanted
to see what that did in business
meetings uh spent money applying first
class everywhere she wanted to see what
that would do but yeah I tried a lot of
different experiments and it was just
for shits and giggles
um and it was also a reason to justify
some of my expenses
I want to play first class because I
remember my first time playing first
class someone else paid for it I'm like
wow this is I've been missing out this
is a lot better than being crammed up
and flying all the way to Europe from
Los Angeles you know in economy and then
I was like man let's do some experiments
and let's see if I can justify this
expense but yeah
that's amazing and you just you did you
say early on that you just gave Heaton
so did you invest in heat and Shaw's
other company Sean Nera yeah yeah so
we're both Neil we're both investors in
Nera which is he Heaton's your cousin
right
now no brother-in-law brother-in-law
yeah sorry and uh Heaton's amazing he's
another he's a great blogger as well and
Sean and I both invested in his company
called Nera which is either gonna
like it's like a company that's close
like they're gonna close like
multi-million dollar contracts I would
guess that's it's like a big old
business potentially a big old business
but did you say that you gave him crazy
egg
uh so with crazy egg what ended up
happening is is what I wanted to do is
we were doing business forever together
and then eventually I just said hey you
can have the monthly distributions and
I'm gonna go create another business
why would you give that why
uh he didn't ask for it nor did he care
for it nor did he want it you know he's
never been about money neither him or I
have and we're not rich I can't actually
speak for him I'm not rich I've just
done well enough and I don't spend as
much so it's like don't really need the
money does that make sense like if you
just don't spend money you don't really
need much cash at all dude you just said
you dropped 200 000 out of clothes what
do you mean you don't need money well
that was an experiment right but that's
not my daily life like I'm wearing a
white T-shirt with stains and my kids
spits up on
um they're probably like 10 20 bucks I
don't know what the white t-shirts cost
but they're not really white anymore so
I try not to do video recordings in
front of white walls anymore because you
can just tell the discoloration from it
nonetheless
so does Sam say you live in Brazil is
that what no no I have a uh division in
Brazil like we do Marketing in Brazil
for Brazilian companies and you live in
Texas where do you where do you live
Vegas Vegas okay amazing and uh so have
you um is it easy for you to keep your
burn rate down because like uh I was
telling Sanders I spent like I don't
know 25 000 a month now just like and
I'm not I don't even feel like I'm dude
I think you might spend more than that
now if I bet you add it up because I
know how you spend I bet you it's more
than 25 it might be it might be a little
more uh but it's not more than 30 I
would say I don't think it's more than
30. so I but like it's yeah I got two
little kids but I got two little kids
but they're like babies like like you
know like they didn't they don't need
food yeah so so you know there's diapers
sure but like it's not them it's me
so I would take 30. you said it's a
steep burn rate or it's a
good burn rate I would take it I'll
trade with you okay gotcha so would you
say you don't spend much what do you say
is your monthly burn rate because I
think for most people listening right
they're like most people don't talk
about how much they make or how much
they spend all right how much you make
sometimes that's sensitive how much
but Neil you actually wrote this in a
blog post you said uh you said I spend
this was I don't know if you're I
actually I have no idea if you're single
or if you have a family and you can
right now but you used to say in your
blog post that you go fifteen thousand
dollars a month is all I need I'm happy
that was like 10 years ago I think but
uh that's but you used to say 15 000.
single and no kids is easy right now if
I had a guess on my burn rate 120 to 180
a month
so what is how does that break down so
what what's the like what's the bulk of
it whether so house probably is the
biggest one
no I have no mortgage okay so you're
spending 120 to 180k without spending
anything on your home
uh property tax property tax uh for both
my homes and HOA dues is probably close
to 200 a year
okay great
so
[Music]
we've got 12 000 of the way there yeah
yeah so there's
okay life insurance is 25 Grand a month
what my whole life policy yeah that's 25
to 300 a year uh no no wait wait what
what the hell is a 25 000 a month life
insurance policy what can you explain
that
this is just a benefit like if I die my
wife and kids get money
like a life insurance policy yeah well I
get that but is that normal I've never
heard uh like either I'm dumb or you're
a dumb who's dumb here am I dumb because
I've never heard of anybody spending
that much on their life insurance it's
like an investment account it builds
over time
so it's not like it goes away right most
life insurance policies are for call it
10 years then you buy another one mine
just keep going and you can borrow
against it just think of it as like a
investment vehicle so that's 25 a month
okay now I understand staff
uh cleaners nannies driver we have a
full-time driver I think that ends up
being around 57 a month
um fifty seven hundred fifty seven
thousand thousand
yeah uh you know a driver Uber
why are you crazy more affordable I
optimize for convenience in Vegas I go
through this company they charge a hefty
premium I go through this company and I
have decals on my car so if I do a
meeting in front of a casino the car can
just stay in front of the casino and
doesn't have to move if I'm going to the
airport you can straight up pull up into
the plane or whatever you want to do and
you don't have to go through terminals
or anything like that so that makes like
so part of your strategy this I'm
picking this up is that you live the
best lifestyle you want and it's all
expensible the way you do it
uh I don't know if it's all expensive is
that what you meant with the decal like
it's a company it's like marketing it's
like a like a marketing vehicle for you
so there's a limo company if I have
their ideas
I can end up parking wherever I want in
theory not literally wherever I want but
in most cases I can park wherever I want
and the car can just sit there and wait
for me so all right so what else
anything else you fly private he's like
I buy a daily Disneyland fast pass just
in case I decide to go that day
convenience of time
um what's been what's been the number
one uh like kind of like where you feel
like most people don't most people think
this is too expensive and not worth it
but for me I get way more value I'll
give you an example in my life right so
I I thought I had burned right until we
started talking so this is great I'm
feeling so much better about myself but
the one thing I did was I hired a
private Chef so I was like all right
that I think I I always thought that's
the lifestyle of the Rich and Famous and
I thought wow that's cool because you
eat healthy and it tastes great you
don't have to fuss with time and you
know cooking in dishes and groceries and
all that stuff
and so to me it's like a number I'm like
dude anybody with any kind of money you
should be like that should be one of the
first like fancy car later private Chef
now like because I'm like to me the
value the reward way outweighed the cost
I think most people don't typically make
that trade sounds like you've
experimented with many ways of spending
money what has been a good reward for
for cost uh trade that you're like this
one is is great that most people don't
do
I I don't know I'm in I'm in a bubble
because I have a lot of friends who are
like me sadly
um in which we spend a lot and we don't
know it's reality I know that sounds bad
to say but it's true right uh Hook is
not bad uh housekeepers and best you
don't have to do your own dishes and
stuff although funny enough I enjoyed
doing that and ironing because it's uh
it's kind of like meditative for me it's
relaxing I don't know why watching TV
and ironing
um Nanny's help so you get the freedom
and you can watch your kids when you
want to but you can also do meetings and
stuff like that
um
probably the the best expense I ever
spend on is private planes not because I
like it it's uh I don't mind playing
commercial not really any difference for
me but it helps me optimize for time so
that way I can see my kids more
that does sometimes do a lot of meetings
for work and just going and then coming
back the same day just really in and out
really quickly like sometimes I'll be
home quick enough like go from Vegas to
Utah for a conference speak come back
and I'll be home quick enough to pick up
my kid from school I like to meet people
all valuable that's where's my money are
you saving any money then or I mean are
you just taking a fat draw from the
agency in order to uh pay for this or
are you able to expense a lot of it to
the agency how's that work I don't
expense any of it to my company
as personal paper
so you're just the agency is just that
profitable of a business it's doing that
well
or Investments or savings I've done well
enough in life where I'm okay